Course Syllabus for "COMM311: Intercultural Communication "
-----------------------------------------------------------

We live in an increasingly globalized world. Technology enables us to do
business just as easily with our neighbors as with a businessperson
thousands of miles away from us. Knowing how to navigate cultural
differences is an increasingly valuable skill that will make you a more
valuable employee. Encounters among members of different cultures
frequently fail simply because of basic cultural differences, such as
the importance of time, proper greetings, or even the use of eye
contact. This course is designed to help you identify how to become a
better communicator in these sorts of cross-cultural situations. You
will learn about barriers to successful communication that involve
cultural differences. You will also learn more about your own
communication style and how it can be developed to facilitate more
successful intercultural encounters. Though some of this course
addresses a Western/U.S. perspective, much of the course focuses on
characteristics of specific cultures and how generally one culture may
adapt to another, regardless of which cultures they may be. While some
information is presented from a Western perspective, the information in
this course can be applied to other cultures. You should consider how
your culture fits in terms of interacting with other cultures learned
about in this course. This course builds on other communication courses.
You will learn to apply various skills that you have developed in other
courses, including the ability to analyze an audience and the context of
the communication in an intercultural encounter. Likewise, skill and
insights into message development and the ways in which different groups
receive and interpret messages will take on new meaning when applied in
an intercultural context. Much of the information in this course will
refer back to the pioneering work of Hofstede and his cultural
classifications. Geert Hofstede is one of the foremost influential
scholars in the discipline of cultural studies, particularly
organizational culture. His pioneering work, such as the cultural
dimensions theory, has been the basis for subsequent research and the
growth of the field and understanding of how members of differing
cultures interact.

### Learning Outcomes

Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to:

-   compare and contrast communication styles between cultures such as
    African American, Latino, Indian, Middle Eastern, Native American,
    and Asian;
-   explain how cultural differences affect business and the workplace;
-   identify and explain the five dimensions of intercultural
    communication;
-   identify primary differences in communication practices of different
    cultures;
-   identify the benefits and challenges of intercultural relationships;
-   analyze the constraints on communication and relationships among
    people of different cultures; and
-   articulate a set of strategies for the development of intercultural
    communication competence.

### Course Requirements

In order to take this course, you must:  
  
 √    Have access to a computer.  
  
 √    Have continuous broadband Internet access.  
  
 √    Have the ability/permission to install plug-ins or software (e.g.,
Adobe Reader or Flash).  
  
 √    Have the ability to download and save files and documents to a
computer.  
  
 √    Have the ability to open Microsoft files and documents (.doc,
.ppt, .xls, etc.).  
  
 √    Be competent in the English language.  
  
 √    Have read the [Saylor Student
Handbook](http://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Saylor-StudentHandbook.pdf).

### Course Information

Welcome to COMM311. General information on this course and its
requirements can be found below.  
  
 **Course Designer: **David E. Williams  
  
 **Primary Resources: **This course is composed of a range of different
free, online materials. While there are several different readings
throughout the course, extensive use is also made of YouTube and other
online media, which offer insights from experts regarding specific
content. Online sources are also used to allow those involved in various
intercultural relationships to share their insights and experiences with
you. The course makes primary use of the following materials:  

-   [*Sociology: Understanding and Changing the Social World
    (Comprehensive
    Edition)*](http://www.saylor.org/site/textbooks/Understanding%20Media%20and%20Culture.pdf)
-   [*Principles of Social
    Psychology*](http://www.saylor.org/site/textbooks/Principles%20of%20Social%20Psychology.pdf)
-   [*Leading with Cultural
    Intelligence*](http://www.saylor.org/site/textbooks/Leading%20with%20Cultural%20Intelligence.pdf)
-   Lee Hopkins’ [Better Communication
    Results](http://leehopkins.com/articles-on-organizational-communication.html)
    Articles

  
 **Requirements for Completion: **In order to complete this course, you
will need to work through each unit and all of its assigned materials. 
You will also need to complete:  

-   Subunit 1.4 Activity
-   Subunit 2.5 Activity
-   Subunit 3.4 Activity
-   Subunit 4.3 Activity
-   Subunit 5.5 Activity
-   The Final Exam

Note that you will only receive an official grade on your Final Exam.
However, in order to adequately prepare for this exam, you will need to
work through all of the resources in each unit as well as the discussion
board activities listed above.  
  
 In order to “pass” this course, you will need to earn a 70% or higher
on the Final Exam. Your score on the exam will be tabulated as soon as
you complete it.  If you do not pass the exam, you may take it again.  
  
 **Time Commitment: **This course should take you a total of **135.75
hours** to complete. Each unit includes a “time advisory” that lists the
amount of time you are expected to spend on each subunit. These should
help you plan your time accordingly. It may be useful to take a look at
these time advisories, determine how much time you have over the next
few weeks to complete each unit, and then set goals for yourself.  Many
of the videos and readings will ask you to apply the material in various
manners to your own thinking. This time is accounted for in the time
advisories. For example, Unit 1 should take you 29 hours. Perhaps you
can sit down with your calendar and decide to complete sub-subunits
1.1.1 and 1.1.2 (a total of 2.25 hours) on Monday night; sub-subunit
1.1.3 (a total of 2.75 hours) on Tuesday night; sub-subunits 1.1.4 and
1.1.5 (a total of 4.25 hours) on Wednesday night; etc.  
  

